In this lesson we're going to discuss, how
to get
input from the user using a function
called Raw Input.
So we're gonna use the interactive shell
first, so let's open that.
The way we use Raw Input is like so we
would, for example, create
a variable, and then assign it to the
output of the raw input function.
So that if I type some data into Raw input
and then hit the enter key, the
interactive shell returns.
And if I print the value of name, you'll
see that it displays Mary Smith.
So clearly raw input pauses the
interactive program
to wait for the user to enter input.
Once the user hits the enter key, then the
input is sent from
the function to the variable on the other
side of the assignment statement.
So string data is very simple to enter
with Raw input.
You can enter one word or you know a whole
sentence for example,
and again, it just keeps collecting input
until I hit the enter key.
Then it returns, and then whatever I typed
into the keyboard
up into the inner key stroke is stored in
sentence.
We can also store numbers using raw input.
What will happen when I type number times
two?
It replicates the value stored in number,
whether then returning
200, that's because the output from Raw
input, is string type.
So if I want the data that Raw input
receives, converted to,
in numeric type I have to provide a
function to do that.
In this line I have used the int
conversion
function to convert route inputs value to
int from string.
Now if I type print number times two it
prints the correct value, or
what I expected to be the correct value
which is 200 rather than 100, 100.
If I'm working with floating point values,
I can use float as the conversion function
instead, and it will retrieve the data and
store it as a floating point number.
That I can then do floating point
operations
on it, without worrying about losing any
data.
So those are the primary uses of raw
input.
Certainly in this course, we'll mostly be
retrieving
strings and numbers from the user, using
raw input.
Let's look at one more example, that's a
script rather than just using the
interactive shell.
So we're gonna start a script.
So what we gonna do, is we're going to
prompt the user to enter some values.
And then we'll convert them to integer
before we store them in the variable.
So we'll do that a second time.
And
we're going to display the sum.
Now, right here I have a problem, in that
I can't concatenate a number, which
is what we'll get when we add number one
with number two to a string.
We've seen in previous lessons that, that
leads to an error.
So, what I have to do is, I have to use
the string conversion function.
To convert number one plus number two, to
stream format and then I can store the
result.
So let's exit and Save, and we'll just run
the script, three and four gives us seven.
So that's how you use raw input to
retrieve data from the user.
After they've typed in at the keyboard.
And now we're ready to move on to the
exercise for this chapter, where we're
going to use print and raw input to create
an interactive thank you note.